Create rule S6317: AWS IAM policies should not allow privilege escalation (#183)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6317/description.adoc

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is the service that defines access to AWS resources. One of the core components of IAM is the policy which, when attached to an identity or a resource, defines its permissions.

> Policy granting permission to an Identity (a User, a Group or Role) are called identity-based policies. They give to an identity the ability to performe a predefine set of action on a list of ressources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policies granting permission to an Identity (a User, a Group or Role) are called identity-based policies. They add the ability to an identity to perform a predefined set of actions on a list of resources.
```

> Here is an example of a policy document defining a limited set of permission that grants a user the ability to manage his own acces keys. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of a policy document defining a limited set of permission that grants a user the ability to manage his own access keys. 
```

----

> {

Reviewer: It is not explicitly said that this code contains a privilege escalation.

Reviewer 2: It's not the case, this code is illustrating how a policy document is defined.

Reviewer: Oh, okay, my bad.

    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Action": [
                "iam:CreateAccessKey",
                "iam:DeleteAccessKey",
                "iam:ListAccessKeys",
                "iam:UpdateAccessKey"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::245500951992:user/${aws:username}",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Sid": "AllowManageOwnAccessKeys"
        }
    ]
}
----

> Privilege escalation generaly happen when an identity policy gives to an identity the ability to grant more privileges than the ones he already has.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Privilege escalation generally happens when an identity policy gives to an identity the ability to grant more privileges than the ones it already has.
```

> Here is another example of a policy document that hides a privilege escalation. It allow an identity to generate a new access key for any user from the account, incuding users with high privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is another example of a policy document that hides a privilege escalation. It allows an identity to generate a new access key for any user from the account, including users with high privileges.
```

----
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Action": [
                "iam:CreateAccessKey",
                "iam:DeleteAccessKey",
                "iam:ListAccessKeys",
                "iam:UpdateAccessKey"
            ],
            "Resource": "*",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Sid": "AllowManageOwnAccessKeys"
        }
    ]
}
----

Although it looks like it grants a limited set of permissions, this policy would, in practice, give the highest privileges to the identity it's attached to.

> Privilege escalation is a serious issue as it allows a malicious user to easily escalate to a high privilege identity from a low privilege identity it took control of.

Reviewer: It is always easy? There might be complicated privilege escalations. I would probably just leave the `easily` out.

Reviewer 2: If the right conditions are meat I would say it's fairly easy yes.
My intention with using "easy" is enforce that it is a serious.
Maybe there is an other way to enforce that.

Reviewer: Okay, makes sense.

> The example above is just one of many permission combinations that the rule can detects. There are other variates based on ``++iam:PassRole++``, ``++lambda:UpdateFunctionCode++`` or other ``++iam++`` permissions that allow to update, create, attach IAM policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above is just one of many permission combinations that the rule can detect. There are other varieties based on ``++iam:PassRole++``, ``++lambda:UpdateFunctionCode++``, and other IAM permissions that allow to update, create, and attach IAM policies.
```

> The general recommandation to protect against priviledge escalation is to restrict the ressources that are granted sensitive permission to. The first example above is a good example of sensitive permissions being used with a narrow scope of ressources and where no privilege escalation is possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general recommendation to protect against privilege escalation is to restrict the resources that are granted sensitive permissions to. The first example above is a good demonstration of sensitive permissions being used with a narrow scope of resources and where no privilege escalation is possible.
```
